we have to be comfortable with the fact
that maybe when we study the abyss it
steadies us back
[Applause]
on this episode of american alchemy we
meet a 26 year old whose name is deep
prasad reverse engineering ufos using
quantum computers and he's raised 15
million dollars for his startup quantum
generative materials to do just that
there are too many anomalies around the
world for us to ignore so now you're
probably asking yourself how the hell do
you reverse engineer materials that you
don't even have access to
well luckily the pentagon has hundreds
of instances of optical radar and
infrared detections of ufos
and from those records the dod has laid
out five observable properties that are
very consistent among the ufo sightings
these are things like sudden and
instantaneous acceleration hypersonic
velocity with no signatures all of these
are properties that as my colleague eric
weinstein loves to say exhibit wholly
new physics not just new engineering if
we're taking visitation seriously it
almost certainly means that einstein
isn't the last word gravitational
to me immediately i realized that's not
your average macroscopic interaction he
thinks that the five observables point
to ufos engaging in quantum macroscopic
behavior so what exactly do i mean by
that quantum physics generally governs
the properties of the very small things
like atoms photons and electrons tiny
elementary particles that do spooky
things like entangle at a distance
tunnel through physical barriers and
sometimes exhibit wave particle duality
similarly deep believes that ufos could
simply be large macroscopic quantum
objects what's to say that what we're
observing now today with uaps aren't
just materials more advanced materials
than we have access to today whose
immersion properties we just can't model
with today's physicists in mathematics
right but imagine if you have a computer
that's doing it a quantum computer with
a much more powerful brain than any
other human on the planet they may be
able to figure out what these materials
are
so strap yourself in and grab some salt
because your brain is about to be
scrambled by the master quantum chef
himself this week's american alchemist
deep prasad
[Music]
different parts of the brain have
different activities
[Music]
maybe you should interview me
why don't academics and silicon valley
serious high functioning people why the
[__]
don't they take it more seriously yeah
there's just so much social pressures
basically deterring people even highly
intelligent people from wanting to study
the subject
i'm here with deep prasad who is 26
years old he has a quantum computing
startup but part of the mission of this
quantum computing startup it's actually
reverse engineering uaps or ufos based
on their observable
properties in some sense the most
interesting starting point is like how
does one get into both quantum computing
and uap it completely blew my mind that
the technologies the observables and
what was being reported
there was no way in my personal opinion
that that could be a derivative of any
human science so you have hypersonic
velocities for example right with no
signature
as the waves get created around your
craft the waves at the beginning the
sound waves at the top will get bunched
up and compressed and that's the sonic
boom that you hear so when an object can
travel at greater than five times the
speed of sound like the tic-tac which is
estimated to reach at least 31 times the
speed of sound and it doesn't disturb
the air around you to me immediately i
realized that's not your average
macroscopic interaction so the physics
that we use to describe macroscopic
bodies no longer applies to these things
like my colleague eric weinstein likes
to say this isn't new engineering it's
new physics correct the role of
aerospace companies as holders of
potentially basic scientific knowledge
not shared with the academic world seems
very wrong to me may be wrong but it's
true
it is true you believe it's true yeah i
know it's true
you know that there's physics knowledge
held by aerospace companies that is not
there certainly is materials knowledge
which involves topological physics eric
and i had a pretty trippy conversation
with the guy that briefs all of the
presidents on ufos a guy named hal put
off for more of that conversation you
might have to wait a couple of weeks but
let's get back to d
okay so how does this relate to your
interest in quantum computing you know
what let me give you like an
actual example and why this might apply
to uaps yeah so okay so let's rewind to
because we can never ever observe
absolute zero we should never be able to
observe exactly zero resistance and in
1911 when doctor ohm's uh discovered the
first superconductor it blew everybody's
mind because this was supposed to be
thought impossible and 40 years later we
finally understood why this was even
possible at all and we learned that it's
because of quantum mechanics that
quantum mechanical behavior occurs at
the macroscopic scale and that's what
we're observing and it only applies to
keep in mind low temperature
superconductors we still don't know how
high temperature superconductors work we
know that it's some weird quantum
phenomenon but we don't have the physics
and perhaps mathematics to describe
what's happening there or the computers
so what did we learn in 1911 we learned
that when a material breaks the laws of
physics when anything does it's actually
probably because it's an emergent
property or an immersion phenomenon
right of underlying strange quantum
mechanics that are going on okay so
you're looking at properties of uaps
things like you know hypersonic travel
with no uh signatures or you know
breaking conservation of momentum don't
you that you can't make that work in in
sort of our classical physics or
aerospace you know abilities so you have
that
and then you have this interest sort of
in in quantum field theory
how does this relate to quantum
computing and yeah how do you tie it all
together so look when i first started
quantum computing
my goal was to be able to simulate any
new material and predict it before
having to make it in the lab right i
wanted to be able to tell is this new
combination of atoms going to be the
next semiconductor will it be the next
solar cell the next batteries that's
cool so you wanted like the ultimate
modeling
software or something you got it like
the what tesla could do in his brain
[Laughter]
and you would be able to do that with
quantum computing or we will oh
absolutely here's why
the classic equation that we'd use to
simulate the properties of atoms would
be the schrodinger's many body equation
if you can solve that many bodies shown
in your equation you will know
everything about that material you will
know the speed of sound in that material
you will know its resonance frequency
you will know its heat capacity and
strength the problem is that in the past
we haven't been able to do this equation
for more than about three atoms yeah not
much it's not it's not very useful right
in other words the many body equation
has a scaling problem as paul drake said
he literally said everything we want to
know
about materials has been figured out we
just don't have the computational
resources interesting to solve this
equation deep thinks that the bottleneck
for solving this equation at scale is
basically just using classical computers
and with quantum computing we might
actually be able to do it and simulate
meta materials that exhibit the five
observable properties of ufos
[Music]
we engineer every technology today and
in the sense that we treat quantum
effects as a side effect an artifact a
consequence that we have to engineer
around quantum computers decide they
take a different approach they say
instead of treating quantum effects as
this unwanted thing that we're
engineering around right incorporating
accounting for let's actually leverage
it let's create quantum systems of our
own and manipulate them so that we can
simulate other quantum systems because
in order to simulate nature and nature's
quantum mechanical you need a system
that is also quantum mechanical
the quantum mechanical world is like a
dream world powerful and ethereal
anything can happen in it however as
soon as somebody on the outside disturbs
you you wake up and all you're left with
are memories similarly subatomic
particles exist in a probabilistic state
of many possibilities but when they
interact with an observer they collapse
into a single state as a result quantum
hardware which relies on maintaining two
or more states in quantum superposition
will decohere if they're interfered with
by anything from the outside
this is the main bottleneck for building
fully fledged and functional quantum
computers they're incredibly sensitive
and they often require very specific and
energy intensive environments in order
to maintain coherence this is why
initially deep is using a quantum
computer simulator instead of quantum
hardware
all quantum computers the algorithms
that we're running on them they are
universal computations what that means
is that we will be able to model any
algorithm we want on quantum computers
and so what we can do is if you're smart
enough if you're clever enough you can
figure out the right mathematical
representation of the antibody
schrodinger equation and port it onto a
quantum computer simply by the fact that
you can approximate
any algorithm you want on a quantum
computer so if you have algorithms and
mathematical models
that that map right from quantum
computing to many bodies showing your
equations you're in the money
and that's what we do right we do
hardcore research into how to map these
material science problems on a quantum
computer describe to the audience what a
qubit is it's the quantum version of a
bit a bit is the fundamental unit of
information for classical computers
right one or zero one or zero exactly
but the fundamental
smallest unit of information you can
have in a quantum system is a qubit
qubits can take on superpositions of
states right and so what a lot of people
in popular culture popular science
butcher when they describe
superpositions is that they say that the
qubit is both one and zero at the same
time that's not true it's not in the one
state it's not in the zero state it's
not in the one and zero state either
it's also not not in the one and not in
the zero state
it's in a superposition state but how
does that equate to transmitting
more information more information
if i were to have let's say just 10 bits
right it sounds trivial but it takes 10
bits to describe the state of 10 bits
right
but if i have 10 q bits then i need 2 to
the 10 classical bits to represent the
entire quantum state of those 10 qubits
because you can have
all the the qubits entangled with each
other meaning that they can all to
describe one you have to describe what's
happening to all the others take a
caffeine molecule right the
the caffeine molecule is estimated to
have about like 97 electrons right at
least um and
to describe 97 electrons
fully like fully entangled 97 electrons
right to properly account for that you
would need 2 to the 97 classical bits
and that's more atoms than the surface
and all planet earth right minus the air
so even if i took every single atom on
planet earth and convert it into
classical bit i wouldn't be able to
store the quantum state of a caffeine
molecule
for some reason nature is able to do a
level of bookkeeping in the background
with quantum states that we don't fully
know
how it does it nature does is
bookkeeping that's so computationally
impossible for us to do today
right and that's where like ideas of the
multiverse and multiverse interpretation
comes in and so on right where people
will say well nature's not actually
storing it anywhere it's actually just
distributed across different universes
we have a sense of where it gets stored
so obviously but these are the way in
which quantum computing sort of
simulates nature more accurately and so
can store more exactly but
uh do we have a sense of how the
computing is storing either or that's
also somewhat of a black box where
complete black box we can engineer them
interesting but we have no [__] clue
why it works wow
that's pretty nutty
[Music]
every physical material ever is a
quantum system your brain your skin
everything is made of atoms and all
atoms are described by quantum
mechanical rules it's almost a form of
blind exceptionalism to say that the
body is not quantum because everything
else is quantum so that's how much
quantum sensing is going on that's
unclear but exactly it's not like we we
came into existence as giant macroscopic
bodies right we literally started from
amoeba we were closer to the quantum
scale when we started out
so it's hard to imagine that
that we didn't evolve even at the
cellular level some ability to use
quantum effects for sure
do you think your brain is a quantum
sensor
like the the penrose argument would be
so it's like we don't perceive anything
kind of in its quantum form obviously we
perceive you know a bigger proportion
kind of classical stuff right and the
penrose argument would be that you know
you have a probabilistic universe you
have schrodinger's wave equation and
we're collapsing schrodinger's wave into
a specific eigenstate right uh using you
know this some some quantum sensor in
our brain may be microtubules or maybe
something else right do you believe that
or the thing is that with our brain
there may be parts of our brain that
could behave like a quantum sensor we
know that there are birds that can
navigate the earth's magnetic field and
sense it right using quantum sensing
essentially biological quantum sensors
the body in biology at large is
typically warm wet and noisy not
conditions that you think of as
conducive to maintaining quantum
coherence or exhibiting quantum
properties but scientists now know that
there are actually parts of biology that
do exhibit quantum effects for example
they're birds called robins that have a
specific protein called a cryptochrome
in their eye called
cry4 that actually uses quantum effects
to sense the magnetic field of the earth
electron pairs in the cry4 protein
arrange themselves based on the robin's
position and direct the bird where it
needs to go based on the magnetic field
of the earth it's basically biological
gps lockheed observed these birds right
or like the physics and and they decided
can we replicate this with existing
sensors can we create a quantum sensor
that does the same thing that these
birds are doing to detect the earth's
magnetic fields and they succeeded as of
six years ago they created what's called
the dark ice magnetometer so with these
magnetometers they can navigate anywhere
on earth without a gps with gps
precision they don't need a satellite
they can be underwater they can be
wherever the hell they want and they can
that's pretty amazing well there are all
sorts of issues national security
vulnerabilities with gps satellites for
sure for sure and then if you don't have
access to gps for whatever reason and
imagine if you're an extraterrestrial
species visiting a new planet you don't
have access to gps
magnetometer that's it
as we build more powerful quantum
sensors we're going to be able to learn
things about the human body that will
actually be medically useful there's
already research being done and devices
being built for sensing the heart and
like the activity of each you know
basically atom in the heart right so
imagine having atomic resolution into
the human body wow these are this is
what's going to happen right it's
inevitable
you see all of la so that's
west hollywood right here downtown all
the way
east right there and then you can see
the beach during the day
all the way away
yeah it's beautiful
i think
your blog is fascinating and i want to
go through some of your blog posts
because i think the the titles
themselves i think are worthy of
explanation so i'm just going to go
through a couple of them and you can
sort of give me the the summary if that
works sure okay the evolution of science
and the interactive universe
so
when we look at the modern scientific
method right it was um invented by the
credit goes to sir francis bacon his
assumption the scientific method
naturally assumes that whatever you are
deriving about the universe should be
repeatable right and if it's not
repeatable if it's not testable and
controlled then it's not scientific and
it's not useful information the issue
with that is that it assumes that the
universe is static that if i were to
measure a certain volume of air
that it will never change if i measure
the
particle composition of this air nothing
ever changes the repeatability is there
because the laws of physics are the same
and so on so forth nothing will ever
affect my measurements other than the
errors that i already know the the
fundamental issue with sir francis
bacon's assumption was that ask matter
of favor flies through the air that air
the composition everything about it
should be repeatable however that day
something happened that was not
repeatable the existence of the tic tac
so somewhere in that air was this
anomaly this thing that does not and is
not repeatable yet it was clearly
something that needs to be studied so
the scientific method needs modification
and that's what this article is about
that yeah it well yeah another model of
science and this is maybe like a cunian
model
is that there are anomalies that don't
go expo like you were talking about
quantum field theory like you had black
body radiation during the 1860s
discovered by some german guy and it
didn't make any sense you'd expect sort
of you know uh runaway heat in this in
this black body or whatever
um if you were talking about kind of a
typical newtonian system and that wasn't
the case we figured out mathematically
why that wasn't the case when max planck
figured that out you know that that that
light was actually quantized in the
early 20th century right but you have
these things where it's like little
little pokes in the
uh formal convention of the time and the
standard paradigm and you're like what
is that doesn't quite make sense it
doesn't quite make sense and i love that
there's a carl popper line
materialist promissory notes and it's
you know all of the gaps of materialist
reductionism will get filled in
inevitably exactly but but um that in
itself takes faith and so i think i
think studying anomalies is incredibly
important absolutely and should be
should be seen as a possibly a harbinger
of the next paradigm absolutely and and
and not shoved away and not i mean i
think we're over indexed on like people
like michael shermer like justifying the
current paradigm that doesn't move
science forward that's not exciting at
all it doesn't it also doesn't face
reality i really believe in you know as
cheesy as it sounds facing reality if
we're realizing that the scientific
method
is not giving us uh
the full picture we should be looking at
new methods too that complement right
science as well because we know now at
least no we have good indications that
the universe is indeed
not static as in if i were to measure
something there is a non-zero chance
some crazy anomaly that has never been
properly characterized will occur in my
measurement in my experiment and we need
to be able to quantify that somehow and
we need to account for it we have to be
comfortable with the fact that maybe
when we study the abyss it steadies us
back
one of the interesting things we've been
talking about like physics with uaps but
what i find very interesting is if you
look at all into the subject
it's not just new physics or if it is
new physics there's one component that
doesn't fit with our current model of
physics outside of the observables of
the actual uaps being very weird and
that's that certain people see the uaps
and those people see the certain uaps
often in various states true and so
again
the occam's razor easy way to explain
that away is the person is crazy right
but often these people have no mental
health history why do you think certain
people see uaps and is there science
that we'll discover
that might be able to explain that i
have two answers right one is much more
rational and doesn't make me sound crazy
the other one makes me sound like a
complete lunatic let's start with the
second one okay sure
my lunatic answer is um
it's based on cellular automata so
cellular automata is a notion that comes
from computer science and mathematics
and it's the idea that you can create
highly complex highly emergent systems
from very basic cells and very very
basic rules right where you just define
um you know a couple cells on a grid and
how they'll behave whether they die or
not right this is where like conway's
game of life comes and so on and then we
see that if you let the simulation run
and you let the play out you imagine you
see this completely different version
phenomenon right that's so complex my
crazy theory is that these uap sightings
that we're seeing and so on
are part of the cellular automata where
individually they may seem like one-offs
and weird events but what we're
experiencing could be part of this
essentially
game or strategy where the end goal is
this very very complex emergent
phenomenon that cellular automata leads
us to and i think that we're part of a
more intelligent organisms cellular
automata game i guess if you will
interesting i think that it's uh the
whole point is that is to change society
towards a new state an emergent property
like a very complex society that we
don't even have like we're not even near
right now like we're getting pushed
towards it in ways that we don't even
realize that's what's weird is it almost
feels like there's an arc of tech
innovation or civilization
civilizational progress or something
that sure um it's like you know why are
there certain discoveries
at the same time in places that didn't
have any contact with one another people
were having sort of the same same
thoughts at the same time
there's obviously you know esoteric
traditions of kind of cyclical
civilizations that you know rose up and
then they declined
and it's i don't it's all very hard to
explain but maybe maybe tech is more
preordained than we than we think it is
or maybe per like the william james
transmission theory of consciousness
these things are sort of zapped into us
and all ideas are kind of zapped into us
okay let's go through some more blogs we
have resolving key issues in quantum
mechanics while simultaneously debunking
every ufo case in history
yeah so that was just an april fool's
prank
okay okay curiosity as a time capsule
what is that awesome so that's where i
lay out my predictions for where i think
uap
research is
going that was my version of a time
capsule
so that
one day the hope is that you know
five years 10 years 20 years from now as
we develop a deeper understanding of
what uaps are and the ecosystem around
it
what it means or where that's going to
leave us so that's that yeah what are
your predictions
my prediction is that over the next 10
years
i think that we will have collected
enough scientific evidence enough groups
will have collaborated and worked
together
and also post-scientific groups too
right like i mentioned we make some
modifications to scientific method i
think that we're going to be stay in a
decade from now where we acknowledge
that we are not the only life forms that
are intelligent and super intelligent on
this planet i vaguely believe that
failure and that would be an insane
thing say we we all were like okay so we
have scientific verification that aliens
are you know having a basis somewhere
whatever right uh
all of a sudden you replace angels and
demons in the bible with aliens and
you're like okay that was probably real
right and like a lot of that stuff might
be happening now and actually
my cousin who had a vision you know or
whatever like maybe he really did have a
vision and they had something to tell
him and all of a sudden the world
becomes much more magical place totally
uh and it's not just these like
folklorists yeah that gives me funny
stories that people are telling in the
form of religion that people think you
know it's just this sort of
garden-variety thing that you do you
show up it's for the community whatever
but it's ultimately there's no
metaphysical truth in it and then
there's science which is like cold and
amoral but it's it's real somehow this
would marry those two things in this
like freaky way
it's amazing it would be kind of crazy
but i i don't know if it's kind of thing
it's inevitable it is inevitable there
are
too many anomalies that are being
reported and that are being measured and
observed around the world
that for us to ignore you know that
relates to almost religious like
experiences right yeah um i think that
it's not it would be so painfully naive
of us and it is to conclude that we know
everything there is about the universe
where we're so close that we can say
that there's no such thing as like you
know aliens for example right like think
about our quantum mechanics in general
relativity that describes five percent
of the damn universe yeah the other 95
isn't even describable with our physics
yeah right like yet people are so damn
confident about their world view yeah
it's crazy they think they mistake the
map for the territory it's because hey
love it yes that's exactly it that's
brilliant
what would you be working on if it
wasn't quantum computer if quantum
computers didn't exist i would
definitely be in artificial intelligence
do you think ai will ever get to a point
where it's generative and a human
doesn't need to feed it some ideal end
state
that it's sort of judging it off yes yes
it will be when our
fundamental machine learning models are
better and improved and we go beyond the
neural networks of today and when they
have their own physical body because
that's what they're missing is the
ability to actually interact with the
world around them where i would disagree
with like elon musk or nick bostrom or
those those that camp of people is like
they seem to have these like doomsday
scenarios in their head they're like
near term
where like
these like sentient killer robots decide
that you know human
uh meat space is useless and you know or
they don't fit into some objective
function and then we end up getting
thrown out and killed
and
where we are now which is like
statistics on steroids to that just
feels like this insane leap of logic and
i actually think the more insidious
narrative is that ai is already killing
us but ai is just
consumer apps and consumer apps are
eating us
our brains
i think it's brilliant no that's a very
very wise insight because most people
who use tick-tock for example right yes
they have no freaking clue yes how much
they are being manipulated by an
artificial intelligence no idea the
extent of it why she ain't put the new
ones at the bottom then that's
disgusting so imagine you know we
already saw problems with facebook when
people were experimenting with
facebook's news feed to see how to
affect people's mood and then you know
alleged suicides and debts would
increase during this result of this
experimentation right right how do we
know that's not also happening with tick
tock and other um outlets and so on yeah
so absolutely there's an insidious
aspect of ai that we should worry about
that's outside the i think so too i
think it's killing us with a whimper and
not with a bang love it it's just eating
eating away at us sort of parasitically
quantum computers in the next like let's
say to be conservative 15 years i will
i'm being highly conservative there
will become powerful enough to
completely make rsa obsolete rsa
encryption is the backbone of society
right it's it's what allows you to
securely access your bank account to
send messages you could reverse engineer
that with quantum computing exactly that
will happen it is not a matter of if but
when so and when you double spend
bitcoin you could tell us the whole
all of these yeah most of uh um these
cryptocurrencies today will become
obsolete because of quantum computing
well that's an interesting sort of black
swan
event around crypto it will happen yeah
totally and it's gonna a lot of people
will get blindsided caught blindsided in
that absolutely interesting absolutely
and so what happens when there are
nation state actors or people who are
intelligent enough that can build
quantum computers and suddenly the whole
world's information is exposed right
what happens if i can read your facebook
messages now that you've sent throughout
your whole life right how disturbing
would that be so
um i think that that that event alone
will force
society the apocalypse exactly
or like force us to work together
basically like because like everybody
will lose their leverage right at the
same time yeah
well dude thank you for doing this this
was a lot of fun absolutely likewise
jesse yeah thanks deep it was such a
pleasure man
sometimes i'll definitely do this again
dude in miami
absolutely yes